[EDU-3763] feat: guide for investigation flow with graphql (#902)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/observe-journey/real-time-events/analyze-logs/investigate-requests.mdx

---
title: How to investigate requests with Real-Time Events GraphQL API
description: Perform an investigation on requests that are possible attacks with the Real-Time Events GraphQL API.
meta_tags: azion, edge, observe, observability, logs, investigation, attacks
namespace: docs_investigate_requests
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/observe/investigate-requests-graphql-api/
menu_namespace: observeMenu
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

Constant monitoring can help you identify unusual behaviors in your applications and possible attacks. For this guide, you'll use an example scenario where there are requests coming from Brazil, a country you don't want to allow access to, and you want to filter requests from Chile, the country most of your safe requests come from.

:::tip
Change the countries in this example to the ones that best fit your application and investigation scenario.
:::

> See the steps described in this guide to perform an investigation on requests and next steps to resolve the situation it if you're receiving an attack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the steps described in this guide to investigate requests and the next steps to resolve the situation if you're being attacked.
```

## Using GraphQL API playground for investigation

1. Make sure you're logged in on your Azion account, via [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) or via [Console](https://console.azion.com/).
2. Access Real-Time Events GraphQL API [playground](https://manager.azion.com/events/graphql).
3. Create a query with the filter and time range you want to use.

---

## Step 1. Investigating countries

Begin your investigation with a query focused on the countries making requests.

1. In Real-Time Events GraphQL API [playground](https://manager.azion.com/events/graphql), add the following query:

```graphql
query requestsInvestigationCountries {
  httpEvents(
    limit: 100,
    filter: {

>       tsRange: {begin:"2024-03-20T10:10:10", end:"2024-03-27T10:10:10"}
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      tsRange: {begin:"2024-03-20T10:10:10", end:"2024-03-27T10:10:10"
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: não tenho certeza se o espaço foi intencional

    orderBy: [count_DESC]
  )
  {
    geolocCountryName
    host
    requestUri
    status
    count
  }
}
```

2. Run the query in the GraphQL API playground.
    - You'll receive a response similar to:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "httpEvents": [
      {
        "geolocCountryName": "Brazil",
        "host": "myhost.com",
        "requestUri": "/directory/file.html",
        "status": 200,
        "count": 22041
      },
      {
        "geolocCountryName": "United States",
        "host": "host.com.br",
        "requestUri": "/directory/file.html",
        "status": 200,
        "count": 9596
      },
      {
        "geolocCountryName": "Brazil",
        "host": "anotherhost.org",
        "requestUri": "/directory/file.html",
        "status": 200,
        "count": 29582
      },
      {
        "geolocCountryName": "United States",
        "host": "host.org",
        "requestUri": "/directory/file.html",
        "status": 200,
        "count": 9578
      },
      {
        "geolocCountryName": "United States",
        "host": "host.net",
        "requestUri": "/directory/file.html",
        "status": 403,
        "count": 9564
      }
      ]
  }
}
```

> 3. Analyze the query response and check if there's incoming requests from the countries you don't want to allow, in this case, from Brazil.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Analyze the query response and check if there are incoming requests from the countries you don't want to allow. In this case, from Brazil.
```

:::tip
Check how many request the second-ranked country made to compare against the first-ranked one.
:::

### Creating a network list

As you've identified a country you don't want to allow access to is accessing your application, you can create a [network list](/en/documentation/products/secure/edge-firewall/network-layer-protection/network-lists/) to block the country.

1. Access [Azion Console](https://console.azion.com/) > **Network Lists**.
2. Click **+ Network List**.
3. Give your network list a unique and easy-to-remember name.
4. In **Type**, choose **Countries**.
5. In **Countries**, select the countries you want to add to the list. In this case, **Brazil**.

To have your network list running, you need to go to **Edge Firewall** > **Rules Engine** and create a rule associated with the network list you've just created.

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/blocklists-ip-addresses-edge/#associate-network-list-with-edge-firewall-rule-set" text="go to associate network list to rule guide" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>

> After the propagation time for the rule, your domain, associated with the edge firewall you added the list to, will block all requests from that country, which in this case, is Brazil.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the propagation time for the rule, your domain, associated with the edge firewall you added the list to, will block all requests from that country. In this case, Brazil.
```

### Monitoring on playground again

> After creating the rule on **Rules Engine for Edge Firewall**, you need to continue monitoring your application traffic to guarantee the rule has been applied and the application traffic is normalized.

Reviewer 2: After creating the rule in the Rules Engine for Edge Firewall

In your query, update the `tsRange` to match the period after you've created the rule. Remember to give the time for it to propagate.

Now, in the query response for the example of this guide, the requests coming from Brazil must have a `status` indicating blocking, such as `403`.

```graphql
query requestsInvestigationStatus {
  httpEvents(
    limit: 100,
    filter: {
      tsRange: {begin:"2024-03-20T10:10:10", end:"2024-03-27T10:10:10"}

      geolocCountryNameNotIn: ["Chile"]
      hostIn: ["myhost.net", "anotherhost.com"]
      statusIn: "403"

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
same
```
